A plan is seldomly right, ideas are often incomplete. Get punched in the face, evolve, don’t take it personally. Win the fight. 
# Ideas

> “You know, in the room, everything is great ‘cause you don’t have to deliver. So you write it and you imagine it’s Citizen Kane. Or, you know, everything you write is great. But when you have to then take it out and do it, then reality sets in. When all your schemes about making a masterpiece are reduced to 'I’ll prostitute myself any way I have to, to survive this catastrophe.'“ [1]

--

> “Everyone has a plan until they get punched in the face.” [2]

--

We all have good ideas. Great plans. On paper they look perfect. Then you show it to your partner(s), friends, family, strangers, prospects. The idea changes. 

You start doing it and show it to your partner(s), friends, family, strangers, prospects. Changes again. 

You keep going. And it changes again. And again. 

Sometimes those changes feel like a punch in the face. But a plan is seldomly right, ideas are often incomplete. 

<a href="https://altocode.nl/blog/disagree" target="_blank">Don’t take it personally</a>. We all have egos, but you’re not the idea. It’s an idea. Changeable, malleable. An idea attached to an ego is unlikely to evolve. And that’s what you don’t want. 

Get punched in the face, <a href="https://altocode.nl/blog/personality" target="_blank">evolve</a>, don’t take it personally. Win the fight. 

---

- [1] Woody Allen. Weide, Robert B. <a href="https://www.pbs.org/video/american-masters-woody-allen-a-documentary/" target="_blank">Woody Allen, a Documentary.</a> American Masters, PBS.
- [2] Cus D’Amato, Mike Tyson’s first trainer.
