It’s never about what we want or our goals. It’s about what the customer wants. 
# Don’t sell 

> "Thousands of salespeople are pounding the pavements today, tired, discouraged and underpaid. Why? Because they are always thinking only of what they want. They don’t realize that neither you nor I want to buy anything. If we did, we would go out and buy it. But both of us are eternally interested in solving our problems. And if salespeople can show us how their services or merchandise will help us solve our problems, they won’t need to sell us. We’ll buy. And customers like to feel that they are buying—not being sold." [1]

--

Dale Carnegie wrote that in 1936. Almost 100 years have passed, not a thing has changed. If it was true for our great grandparents as it is to us, then this is surely embedded in human behavior. 

**People don’t want to buy.**

As a company, we don’t need to sell. <a href="https://altocode.nl/blog/one-thing-well" target="_blank">We need to solve a problem.</a> If we can show people how our product solves a problem, <a href="https://altocode.nl/blog/free-cheap-usage" target="_blank">we won’t need to sell,</a> they’ll buy. 

It’s never about what we want or our goals. It’s about what the customer wants. 

--

> "There is only one way under high heaven to get anybody to do anything. Did you ever stop to think of that? Yes, just one way. And that is by making the other person want to do it. Remember, there is no other way." [2]

---

- [1] [2] Carnegie, Dale. <a href="https://www.simonandschuster.com/books/How-To-Win-Friends-and-Influence-People/Dale-Carnegie/9781439167342" target="_blank">How To Win Friends and Influence People.</a> Simon & Schuster. 
